Advice for planning a multi-family getaway

Presented by Sunwing

Kathy Buckworth · CBC Life · April 13

(Credit: iStock/Getty Images)
Multi-family travel is one of the fastest growing travel segments today, and as a result, you can find some terrific travel options to suit every generation of travellers for a family vacation no one is soon to forget.
The number one tip for planning a trip which includes generations within the same family is to start planning early. Locking down dates and budgets are key to making sure the trip will meet everyone's expectations. While you can book at any time, there can be advantages to booking early, like securing everything from better deals, your ideal dates and accommodations for your group that are in close proximity to each other.
Try to assign a member of each family as the 'go to' person for arranging details. Think about starting a shared document or spreadsheet to keep track of all of the moving parts. Most often you will have families flying in from different gateway destinations. The good news is, you can visit www.sunwing.ca and find a range of flights and departure cities which will fit your needs.
Flying family members in from across the country with ease is the first stage of a successful multi-family holiday. What to do when you all get together? Finding the perfect resort is easy with a wide range of choices available through Sunwing. Additionally, cruising is one of the most popular multi-generational choices as there is always a lot of things to do for all ages, from kids' clubs to cool restaurants and bars for the adults. There are many any-age activities as well. Kids 12 and under cruise for free on the MSC Divina. The Lego Experience is just one of the creative opportunities kids have, as well as sports, shows, games, arts and crafts, all age appropriate.  But don't just sit there, Mom and Dad. Take part in the many fitness classes before dropping into the sauna, steam room or whirlpools. Gather the whole family for a swim or a splash in the waterpark. Evenings are just as special with the Teatro dell'opera Theatre or dancing at the Byblos Discotheque.

Young and old alike love to get into the water, for just a splash or maybe to swim a few lengths. Family members of all ages can find activities to do together at the Memories Splash Punta Cana Resort and Casino in the Dominican Republic, home to one of the Caribbean's largest on-site waterparks. This award winning water park includes splash pads, spraygrounds, tubes, a wave pool and seven exciting water slides. Access is unlimited and free. In addition, guests here receive full exchange privileges with the Royalton Punta Cana, which has access to the beautiful Dominican Republic beachfront. Get out of the water to enjoy some tennis, fitness programs, or have the kids try out the kids and teens club, to give everyone a break. Accommodations have been designed with families in mind, big or small. Bunkbeds and suites are perfect for multi-generational travel. Kids (and some adults) can be picky eaters, but with access to restaurants at both Memories Splash Punta Cana Resort and Casino and Royalton Punta Cana, a plethora of choice ensures everyone will find something to love.

Finding a resort that will appeal to the young adults and teens in your family can be tricky. But at Jewel Runaway Bay Beach & Golf Resort, teens can enjoy a program built just for them which includes use of the horse ranch and laser tag. As well, complimentary green fees at a Championship Golf Course mean that everyone can tee up for a great time. Of course, there are all the great amenities available back at the resort, but a few quiet rounds of golf is fantastic for catching up with grandparents and parents of all ages.

On the West coast of Mexico, in the Sierra Madres del Sur mountain range, children can party in their own way at the kids and teen clubs, while the adults can try out craft beer by the shade of the Pacific Ocean. Azul Ixtapa Resort has something for everyone including great cuisine and the opportunity for everyone to up their fitness level with a choice of activities such as yoga, pilates, aqua biking and aqua fit.  

"Making memories" is a phrase that can be overused, but is entirely appropriate with the range of options available at www.sunwing.ca for multi-generational travel. Every member of the family will be adding sunny special moments to their own overflowing memory banks… and getting ready to book the next once (or maybe twice) in a lifetime trip.