5 lowwww-key holiday ideas

Presented by Sunwing
(Credit: Unsplash/Pineapple Supply Co)
Planning your escape from the grind shouldn't be more work. That's why we think a luxury all-inclusive resort in a stunning and and peaceful location is the right place to go the next time you need a really restorative getaway. Here are 5 low-key destinations that are high on relaxing, low on the details — and just in time.
This adults-only luxury resort is on the stunning shore of Jamaica's Negril, a small and super relaxed beach town. If you're into diving and snorkeling, Negril's coastline is famous for it. But what really helps you unwind are the services at The Grand Lido — like super swanky suites and personal butlers. And because it's a boutique resort, it's private and serene. Check out the beautiful and very secluded, clothing optional "au-naturel" pool. We also like that there's free wifi throughout the resort, because we want to disconnect… but we also don't want to stress about data when it's time to post photos and show off a little.
A private and remote trip to the Fantasy Island Roatan
If you really need to slow down the pace, no better place to do it than on a 21-acre private island of the southern coast of Roatan, Honduras. This resort has three private beaches and access to the second largest barrier reef in the world, making it a wonderful place for water sports and ecotourism, if you're into that sort of thing. It's actually a five-star diving resort with a mini zoo and a waterpark. But if you just want to get beachside massages, drink cocktails and take in the sun like an iguana, this is definitely the spot.
A pampered paradise stay at the Secrets Huatulco Resort and Spa
Sometimes, you just need to be really, really spoiled. If your version of low-key is getting the VIP treatment, then this is where you need to go. The five-star Secrets Huatulco Resort and Spa is on a private white sand Pacific coast beach in Huatulco, Mexico. Only 20 years ago the area was mostly uninhabited. The resort is designed for extreme relaxation and pampering, with a luxury spa, awesome new fitness facilities, lots of swanky restaurants, bars and posh lounges.
A rejuvenating and mindful voyage to the Grand Velas Riviera Maya
This new five-star resort focuses on wellness and rejuvenation. There's a really luxurious spa that offers tons of state of the art treatments and a great setting to really help you bliss out. And you'll finally have the time to find your centre with a variety of fitness classes, including yoga, pilates and tai chi.
The shaded Bali beach beds  are just our absolute favourite and, of course, the Riviera Maya's turquoise waters and powder-fine sands aren't too shabby either. Take them in all day and then spend the evening at one of the outdoor gourmet restaurants or bars. This is the trip for you if you need to restore and regenerate — and who doesn't?
A never-leave-the-room getaway at the Sanctuary at Grand Memories Varadero
Ahem… this resort has 24 hour free room service. So, date or no date, you never have to get out of bed. Of course, you'll want to enjoy stuff like the adults-only private pools and exclusive restaurants, lounges and entertainment at this resort-within-a-resort (plus, you also have access to the rest of the Grand Memories). But 24 hour room service is pure luxury. And did we mention that there are in-room liquor dispensers? Yeah. We're moving in.
Disclaimer: This is paid content produced on behalf of Sunwing.
